# PROS-AND-CONS-OF-2D-ANIMATIONS
2D vector-based animation is the most common style of animation that represents graphics that are created in 2-dimension. They are most popular for use in branding and marketing due to the scalability and ease of distribution. If created well, they are one of the most captivating videos.  Here are some advantages and disadvantages of 2D animation videos.  Advantages:  Quick to Produce: There are many new softwares that aid in faster production of 2D videos.  Reasonable Cost: 2D animation is far more reasonable than 3D, live shoot or purchasing stock footage to create a video.  Customisable: This is one of the most compelling benefits of 2D animation. You can customize the entire video just to your liking, right from colours, elements to be used, etc.  Easy to Fix: In case of any errors/changes and edits, it is easier to rectify 2D animations.  Tried and Tested: This animation style has been around for years and most vouch for it.  Less Complex: Creating a 2D animation video is far less complex than working on 3D animation or live shoots.  Disadvantages:  Less Dynamic: 2D animations can be less dynamic as compared to 3D. If you want to show a 360-degree view of an element, it is best done in 3D.  May Have Higher Cost: When the video length is long and too many elements are to be animated, there could be an additional cost incurred.  Expertise: 2D animation videos require someone who can draw and sketch well followed by one who creates great graphics.  Lacks Uniqueness: Most animation videos have some graphic styles that are common in many videos.  Having evaluated the pros and cons of 2D animation videos, we would still suggest they are a good bet and work wonders if well directed. They are great for story telling, social media posts, explainer videos etc. To know more: https://www.orangevideos.in/pros-and-cons-of-2d-animations
